Thank you, everyone. Again, thank you. Welcome, everyone. Welcome. Welcome. Thank you again.
So I'll just talk really about, again, it is reminding of our practice in meditation, of course,
everything.
Oh, that's what we went through last month, or last time, last time, until today.
But we already know that. So today, again, I told you what we've been talking about last time.
It is about the Ibeyo-para-aramata, all the concentrators, and among the six paramatas, it is the
fifth paramatas.
Again, we lay out and divided into three groups, the beginning group, noble, in the middle noble,
and the kungkuluri noble.
And every time, when we started to practice this, to reflect on the teaching, always in the
teaching, say, the correct motivations,
that means that we have also got incorrect motivations. Many times, we do. Incorrect.
But we do listen and reflect the practice of teaching with incorrect motivation, then it will
become deluded, deluded.
Many times, in the teaching, he said, if you don't do the practice as dharma, then dharma will
become almost opposite of that.
How does that happen? Because it's motivation. Intention.
If we correct the motivation, then it will correct all. If we don't correct, it will dilute it.
Even it's good. It's the same way, like a beautiful nectar, something delicious, a nectar in a
golden bowl.
If we put the boson in there, then even though it's a big bowl of the nectar in a golden bowl,
a small amount of boson will dilute it. It will lost value. Instead, it becomes natural, it becomes
like that, toxic.
Toxic. So that's really what always says, teaching says. For that reason, the greatest teacher,
the Buddha Shaktaman, said, always reflect the mind, correct the mind, correct the mind.
But in the teaching, he said, correct the body, correct the speech, correct the mind, but among
that,
mind is soul, while that's so crucial. For that reason, what we teach, we try it.
If you display, tame your own mind, that is my teaching. Time. That is Buddha teaching.
Time is so important, so that's why correct the motivation is so important, and that is the
beginning good.
Noble, beginning noble. And beginning noble is, again, joy, appreciation, bodhicitta,
pure understanding or pure realization or the very undertaking, with beautiful devotions. When we
meditate,
start practices, then we need really the devotions. Devotion is so important, important.
With all the devotions, we won't get really realizations in the teaching state. It's like sunlight.
With all the sunlight, no matter how much for the light, we put all that in green to bring,
trying to have the growth of the fruit of vegetable. With all the sunlight, it won't really happen.
Something we have to substitute the sun, because even in the modern time, the technology time,
they even don't have the sunlight, but they put some electric light or something substitute.
Same way, devotion is so important. It's not a problem. It's not skeptical. It's not just kind of
like,
as kind of like beliefs or things, but that makes difference. You can witness our self.
We can witness our own self, and we have to put the devotional ingredients, so devotion is
important.
With that, and now, we go to the middle part, middle novelism.
Never the sixth part of my life, I've been talking that, and we went through those,
kind of like one up and down, slowly by slowly, where? And today, again, I've told this.
Deon Paramatas. Samti jay parodu sampas. Something, in a way, something. It is Deon Paramatas.
And the Deon Paramata is, then, it's like concentration. It's simple to tell. It's concentration.
That means, the birthday time, our mind is not always concentrated. That means, the mind is very
skated and distracted, so that Deon Paramata will help to bring calm, long mind to essentialize it,
so that we can focus on it. Not skated. Skated. When we're skated, what is happening? We're skated
with all the emotions. And the emotions are wondering in the object of the pipe-sensorial
plate objects. Form, beautiful form, beautiful sound, beautiful smell, beautiful taste,
beautiful touch, beautiful feelings. We're really distracted, all that. We're distracted of the
past,
those thoughts, present, that thought, in the future, that thought. We're always out. Our senses
are all turned out, trying to crave that, craving that, searching, searching, looking. And then,
there is between the hope and fear, the challenge, banging the fold, the clashing there, and then,
dragging down us, down to that, and then, kind of, bumping a little bit up, and again, dragging
down.
We've been on and on and on, and after that one. And that is trouble. That is some sorrow in the
Buddha taking. That really makes all of this. So many things. We think we have been to ourselves,
we're smart in that reality. The quality we're banging into our own head, by our own
fist, no one else doing that. And so, for that reason, telling mind is so important.
In the time of the mind, when you have the constant treasure, it will bring the beautiful
college, beautiful hidden college, mind, courage, commitment, confidence, calm, peaceful, soothing,
calming, fulfillment, relaxing. Really, all that atmosphere is just really kind of like,
just as a spring. It's like booming one after another. It's showing up there. That's what really
is so important, to be honest. So, again, if you go there, and then, of course, we make it,
well, I make it quite a few times, and you know that. Mind is so important. It controls everything,
both samsara and nirvana. So, for that reason, then concentration is so important, important,
and so powerful. And from there, we started nirvana, nirvana. So, for that reason, again,
we told that. And I said, over the day, then concentration is, to do concentration is, then,
do the retreat. That's what we discussed before, retreat. Retreat is to retreat. Physically retreat
,
mental retreat. Or in its Vedic, lupvempa and in sea members. Also, I discussed it, and I listed
that. And in order to do that, bring up that vempa, what in the teaching said by the great Master
Kamala, Sumerai, to all those six. Those are the cause of the good meditation, good practices.
Or those are the six conditions, cause and conditions to have good meditation, good practice.
But at the same time, they are the maintaining of the meditation and the practices. And even
bringing the fulfillment to that. So, those are six. Again, I'm talking the six. It's not six param
ata.
I mean, it's part of the six paramata, but I'm talking those six. I listed, and you, I believe,
whenever you remember that, or maybe even you wrote that down. And those, again, the first one,
is pebble. Stay in pebble of places. That's the number one. That's what I said already. I'm
repeating what I said last time. Pebble of places. Stay in pebble of places. Places.
And the second is, less desire. That I said. I mean, I'm not saying, I'm saying that because that's
what the great Master Kamala Shala said. And that's what Buddha taught. And the third is,
more contentment. Content. That is. And then, the fourth is, good morality, good conduct.
Good conduct. That's what I said. Pebble is, less activities, reduced activities.
And sixth is, less thought. That is. That is retreat. That is retreat of the beginning.
That is retreat of the middle. That is retreat of the final stages.
Think of that opposite side. I already went through those last time.
Stay in pebble of places. And we don't stay in pebble of, unpebble of spaces. And we stay in
unpebble of places. Places. And we have more desires. Less content. No good conduct.
And more activities. More thoughts. Then, that is not retreat. That is not meditation.
That is not the practitioners. We're losing the very fundamental goal
and essential point of the practices. Follow in Dharma. Even we want some gained good result.
Achievement. And we don't have those things. Our practice becomes surface.
There's only hovering on the surface, not taking the root. Root is in the A.
A. That is what. So that's why he said, it's cause and condition of good practice. That sixth is
good call and condition of good practices. But also same time. It's just a good cause and condition
to maintain it. That means now, as we have started practice, we like to be continually
maintain a growth. We like to be growth. We like a development. Successful.
That's, those are the tips. Those are the six tips. Really, six tips.
If we continue to maintain the six, it will bloom the clothes. The enlightenment.
What are your goals? For example, that means in Buddhism, the goal of the Arhatthagot.
Goal of the Parthang Buddhas. Goal of the Bodhisattva. Or Bodhisattva. Will bloom.
High. Beautiful. Dead. And to do that, then when you have those calls, six calls and those tips
to maintain it, then there is aware again, five obstacles. That's more related with the practices.
Now, now you are in a beautiful retreat. All those six are, all those six are you,
quiet out, you get up those six, the calls and the condition. Now you're practicing.
You begin to do the intentional practices and make the time to schedule all the practices.
Are we doing practice now with it? And those are the, I listed when five obstacles.
There was a great master right there and said, five. I went there again last time.
And also, of course, you all know that many times, many great master.
What I'm talking is the same teaching by all the great masters. All the teachers,
they did the same thing. I follow the Buddha teaching. So this is what Buddha teaching.
Teaching is the Buddhism teaching. It is the Mahayana teaching. And so those five obstacles,
those are the five obstacles. Two obstacles, I went in the obstacle for the beginning of the
practice,
to start the practices. And one practice, that is, one obstacle is the obstacle of the
during the practices meditation. Now two obstacles, I said obstacles to the growth of development
progresses. Those are the five obstacles, I would say, they were called in the Tibetan
state is something jnipatna. Five errors of the mistakes, five errors, errors of the mistakes
of the practices. Practicing, those are again, very crucial important tips pointing high
light of our weaknesses. Weaknesses, you think all these so many numbers, numbers, this, this,
the one, this. That the ego tricks. We like to do this kind of like without anything that,
then we like to just move on to the located on the samsara as we be. We like to change,
we like to correct, we like to activate, we like to redirect our direction from the way we've been
doing for a big list of time until now. That's what really our whole point of the practices.
We set the beautiful goal and we set the spare your kind of pathway. We really going to do
something
to make the difference of that. I've been kind of tired and I've been bold amidst samsara
situations. So long time. And of course this life, this time I have the memories I've done now
that according to Buddha's teaching, this is not his first time. They've been low many times,
life after life, we've been in these times. Ups and don'ts as we used examples last time,
that as the bees come trapped in the honey jars, big honey jars, jars end up going up and down and
up and down. There is no stepping out. We created such a dilemma, vastness of the duality, distrust
.
Really is a disturbing, disturbing and as all everything is bouncing back to ourself.
The core of Buddha's teaching is nobody else doing except ourself. It's our own creations,
our own nightmare. Our own nightmare we are going on that troubles with nightmare. It's creation of
our own mind. Same way. So now with that, there's five obstacles, five errors I listed.
And today I'm going to list another pie with support of this, that five errors. And you're
going to remember, of course, those who know already is just reminded, oh it's just another
that you heard already learned. But those people who don't know that heard it, these are the tips
again. Tips and you remember that and you're going to write down if it's possible that or you can
memorize that too. Either way. So first is, number one is joy of the practices. Joy of the practice
.
So that means the joy at the moment, presence of joy, appreciation, interesting of the practices.
Whether it is Dharma meditation, whether it is sadhana practices. Joy. That post is joy. Second is
effort. Effort. That means continuations. It doesn't mean continue all day and night,
but continuation of the everyday. Everyday sun comes, sun sets, moon comes, moon sets.
Again, sun comes, sun sets, breeze, air, rain, sun, shadow, what's called clothes,
the everyday. There's soothing. Continuation. The nature is continuing. We like to keep continuing
momentless. Moment. Same way. That is what means. Effort. Continuing. Not just one time
and once, what's called here, sometimes once in the blue moon, do something and they're gonna stop.
That is not going to work. Everyone change, that's not going to work. So continuation. Effort.
In the teaching I said, effort means continuation. Everyday, as we eat, as we have breakfast,
every day. Every day we have lunch. Every day we have dinner. Every day we eat snacks.
It's a continuation. That's the continuation. That's what we're talking. Effort. Even though
you have to make tea and this and that thing, this modern time in technology or development
country is so easy, we still have to make effort. Effort. That is what talking effort. We're doing
that, not doing that. That effort, we're not doing that. We're boring. Tired in all this desperate
situation. And we're doing that with the joy. We wake up only or now I'm going to have breakfast.
I'm looking forward to the breakfast. Excitement, breakfast. I have to relax in joy. I mean, that's
about joy. Joy and continuation. And then third one is mindfulness. Mindfulness.
Remember. Mindfulness is remembering. Remembering. Close to you. Remember yourself. Remember around
you. Remembering others. Remembering the instructions. That is remembering.
Mindfulness is remembering. Remembering and keeping up that remembers.
That is remembering. It's also continuation. To do mindfulness, we need some degree of effort,
too. So keeping that. Effort is good. You should think. Don't let forget that.
Remember. Mindfulness. The next one is consciousness.
Consciousness is checking up, check in, check out, check in, check, checking out,
checking of our activity of the body, our activity of the speech, our activity of the mind.
That means what I'm using the "I" "our" but it means actually "myself". Checking up my mind,
checking out my body's activity, checking out my speech's activity. How I'm doing.
You become yourself as teacher, instructor, trainer. Trainer. That is consciousness.
In the debate, it's called "bau yu". "Gosong" or "chosong nepai". "Shivin". In the debate,
it's called "shivin". "Gosong yai da kuchivin". Always kind of rejecting.
And checking out the activity of the three doors. Body, speech, and mind.
That is "pokt". Coincidence is "pokt". "Pokt". The fifth one. The fifth one is "balance".
Relax. Economy. Balance. In the debate, "dang yun". "Dang yun". Balance.
That means not to forceful, not to loose. Just right amount of the speech. Right, right amount.
That is "pip". "Pip". Those five are again "chiefs" of the support of "trip"
purify to remove that five mistakes or five errors of the meditation or practice I listed.
Or in the teaching listed, what I did. They are the, they are the like, oh, like, what's it called,
the "anti don't". Or they are the like, you know, like, that will play with those five obstacles
of the practices that I listed or the days. So now, you know what? We know that. Now, of course,
you all know this. I'm not saying that you only know these things. But you all know what I went.
I went above the meditation. Meditation has two, body meditation and mind meditation. Or in other
words, the both, I use the other word, the body hermitage and mind hermitage. Two hermitage.
Both are needs. And I truly have that, those six cores or the connotation of the meditation
and the practices as great master Kamala Chala pointed out. I went through that. We went through
that. Once you have that, nowadays watch out. These five obstacles may occur during those times
or five mistakes. We went those listed, what are those highlighted obstacles. Now, today we went
to, to put a part, to remove that five mistakes of the meditation practice. There is five.
We went. All those were the five tips, five tips of the meditation. And we now, we have that all
tools that we now got off. All the instructions we got. Now we're going to put into the practices.
Practice is then known as meditation. That's the beginning of meditation. Meditation begins with
postures. Those are the seven postures of the body of every other. So that means now we received,
we know now all the instructions, the tools, all how we act, how we do. We know all that. And
everything is in our radar of the wisdom. And now we are going to put an action, begin to practice.
Practice is then silence meditation, any kind of meditation of the Vayayana Sadhmas.
All our meditations that begins with a call and an instruction in the teaching. And we have the
capabilities and the capabilities and it's not too difficult. Start with seven postures of the
Buddha Verojana. That is extended postures in the Buddha teaching, always mentioned in all the
instructions of the Praxilenides, seven postures of the Buddha Verojana. Many of you already know
that those things. But I will go over those there. And today I will stop here again to this summit.
I'm taking slowly and saying to you, but we are progressing. We are too lucky. So I will do that,
but you all know the seven postures. I think already. But I'm going to repeat the next talk
tomorrow. I will say it again one more time. And so that's it. And then you will say again,
now you know, tomorrow what he's going to talk. Okay, he's going to talk. But I hope you will
come back. Thank you. Today with all those beautiful tools that were not, and I really
began to practice it. If you do like to do it during his practice, seven postures of the Buddha
Verojana. Wonderful. If you don't feel uncomfortable, whatever was comfortable with the postures,
then we really celebrate the Buddha's enlightenment, Mahabharata and nirvana, conquering all the
Mahas and then as well as walking to the Bodhi trees. And I mean, all his many major activities
of his in-life activities, we celebrate that with our beautiful practices of this Bodhi darvara
series. So now feel strong presence of the Buddha Chaturmuri, the Gharapama Sambo dara,
Buddha's Bodhi sattva, all the Bodhi sattva, such as at Bodhi sattva. And then for us all,
other Gharapama Bodhi sattva, really feel strong presence there, and then we renew our Bodhi darv
ara
series. Renew our Bodhi darvara. So please, feel strong and really pull. And then also,
we get again this merit for all the healing purposes. Healing of all the sickness, the
trouble, the difficulty of everybody is going through, trouble going, but also fundamentally
cause of this old trouble in the Buddha teacher always is obscurations. So really here, purify
that obscurations and then transform those obscurations, those fundamental, those negative
causes of those negative emotions start going into the wisdom status. So then it all becomes
the display of the activity of the wisdom. So that with those we were told and then our
practices, if you have this booklet, really we start with this booklet. This and which is the
ceremony of reciting the receiving vows of the Bodhi darvara according to the instructions of the
bhakti-rumbudhi, great master bhakti-rumbudhi.